[Doc] New section regarding Intel projects workflow (#1485)
analogdevicesinc/hdl: docs/user_guide/build_intel_boot_bin.rst

.. _build_intel_boot_bin:

Generating HDL boot image for Intel projects
===============================================================================

This page is dedicated to the building process of boot image for supported
Intel/Altera projects. One of the key files that is specific to this
projects is the ``bootloader``. It's role is to initialize the system after the
BootROM runs. It bridges the gap between the limited functionality of the
BootROM and the end user application, configuring the system as needed before
the larger application can run

> Below there're useful links who explain in more detail the process and the
> necessary components:
> 
> -  `Booting and Configuration <https://www.intel.com/content/dam/support/us/en/programmable/support-resources/bulk-container/pdfs/literature/hb/arria-v/av-5400a.pdf#:~:text=This%20topic%20describes%20the%20booting%20of>`__
> -  `SocBootFromFPGA <https://community.intel.com/t5/FPGA-Wiki/SocBootFromFPGA/ta-p/735773#:~:text=Introduction.%20The%20HPS%20(Hardened%20Processor%20System)>`__
> -  `Intel Bootloader <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/support/programmable/support-resources/design-guidance/soc-bootloader.html#:~:text=Intel%C2%AE%20SoC%20FPGAs%20use%20a%20bootloader>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following links you can find more details on the process and the necessary components:

-  `Booting and Configuration <https://www.intel.com/content/dam/support/us/en/programmable/support-resources/bulk-container/pdfs/literature/hb/arria-v/av-5400a.pdf>`__
-  `SocBootFromFPGA <https://community.intel.com/t5/FPGA-Wiki/SocBootFromFPGA/ta-p/735773>`__
-  `Intel Bootloader <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/support/programmable/support-resources/design-guidance/soc-bootloader.html>`__
```

Necessary files for booting up a HDL project
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> .. warning::
>    
>    We don't provide any scripts to automate this whole process, so please read
>    carefully and follow all the steps in order to obtain the desired results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning::
   
   We **do not** provide any scripts to automate this process, so please read
   carefully and follow all the steps to obtain the boot file.
```

When booting a system with Linux + HDL (depending on the project), you will need
to write the following files on the root of the BOOT FAT32 partition. After that,

> you must write the preloader image in a specific card partition, depending on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you must write the **preloader image** in a specific card partition, depending on
```

the case. 

-  For Arria10 SoC projects:

   -  ``socfpga_arria10-common/zImage``
   -  ``<target>/fit_spl_fpga.itb``
   -  ``<target>/socfpga_arria10_socdk_sdmmc.dtb``
   -  ``<target>/u-boot.img``

>    -  ``<target>/extlinux.conf → extlinux /extlinux.conf``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  ``<target>/extlinux.conf → extlinux/extlinux.conf``
```
I'm not familiar with this, but would this arrow look/work ok in the PDF documentation?

Author: Yes, it renders properly in PDF (tested). The characters that would usually mess up the PDF document are highlighted in Visual Studio Code with a yellow box. As far as I know by working with this, only in these cases the chars don't render properly. So the arrows will be kept.

   -  ``<target>/u-boot-splx4.sfp`` to the corresponding SD card partition
      (e.g. ``dd if=preloader_bootloader.bin of=/dev/mmcblk0p3``,
      usually it is the 3rd partition, which is only a couple of MB in size)

-  For Cyclone5 SoC projects:

   -  ``<target>/soc_system.rbf``
   -  ``<target>/socfpga.dtb``
   -  ``<target>/uImage``
   -  ``<target>/preloader_bootloader.img`` to the corresponding SD card
      partition (e.g. ``dd if=preloader_bootloader.img of=/dev/mmcblk0p3``)

> -  For De10Nano SoC project:

Reviewer: Give link to the carriers like it was done here (in the code) https://analogdevicesinc.github.io/hdl/user_guide/architecture.html#intel-platforms

Author: Will update after we have a final version. Don't want to update now and need to update every time I add something new.

   -  ``socfpga_cyclone5_common/zImage``
   -  ``<target>/extlinux.conf → extlinux /extlinux.conf``
   -  ``<target>/u-boot.scr``
   -  ``<target>/socfpga.dtb``
   -  ``<target>/soc_system.rbf``
   -  ``<target>/u-boot-with-spl.sfp`` to the corresponding SD card partition
      (e.g. ``dd if=u-boot-with-spl.sfp of=/dev/sdd3``)

Examples of building the boot image
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Below is a list of projects supported by us for each carrier to illustrate how
> to build and showcase the different files that are involved in the process. Each
> project has it's own characteristics (some files may be different from a project
> to another).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a list of projects supported by us for each carrier. The purpose is to illustrate how
to build and showcase the different files that are involved in the process. Each
project has its own characteristics (some files may differ from one project
to the other).
```
Maybe the first line I edited can be split on the next one, to fit under the character limit per line (I can't see it here)

> .. note::
> 
>    Pay attention, each project needs it's own specific Linux Kernel Image &
>    Devicetree to be build. Also, follow these instructions to write the file to
>    your SD card, depending on the operating system that you use (Windows or
>    Linux):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::

   Each project has its own Linux Kernel Image &
   Devicetree to be build. Follow these instructions to write the file to
   your SD card, depending on the operating system that you use (Windows or
   Linux):
```

   -  :dokuwiki:`[Wiki] Building the Intel SoC-FPGA kernel and devicetrees from source <resources/tools-software/linux-build/generic/socfpga>`
   -  :dokuwiki:`[Wiki] Linux Download and setting up the image <resources/tools-software/linux-software/zynq_images/linux_hosts>`
   -  :dokuwiki:`[Wiki] Formatting and Flashing SD Cards using Windows <resources/tools-software/linux-software/zynq_images/windows_hosts>`

Proceed by cloning the kernel tree, point environment to an arm architecture
cross compiler, build the configuration file, build the image, and lastly build
the project and board specific device tree.

ADRV9371/Arria10
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  HDL Project: :git-hdl:`here <projects/adrv9371x/a10soc>`
-  Linux kernel: :git-linux:`here <>`

Building the Linux Kernel image and the Devicetree
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

**Linux/Cygwin/WSL**

.. code-block::

   user@analog:~$ git clone https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/linux.git
   user@analog:~$ cd linux/
   user@analog:~/linux$ export ARCH=arm

>    user@analog:~/linux$ export CROSS_COMPILE=/path/to/your/arm/cross-compiler

Reviewer: We should give a more specific path.
Maybe [this](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683788/19-1/compiling-the-linux-kernel-for-the-intel.html) can help you (there it says CROSS_COMPILE=arm-linux-gnueabihf and I think the tool can find it, but it should be tested).

Author: Based on the provided page, I decided to rewrite it like this:
`CROSS_COMPILE=/path_to_cross_compiler/arm-linux-gnueabihf`

BootROM runs. It bridges the gap between the limited functionality of the
BootROM and the end user application, configuring the system as needed before
the larger application can run.

In the following links you can find more details on the process and the
necessary components:

-  `Booting and Configuration <https://www.intel.com/content/dam/support/us/en/programmable/support-resources/bulk-container/pdfs/literature/hb/arria-v/av-5400a.pdf>`__
-  `SocBootFromFPGA <https://community.intel.com/t5/FPGA-Wiki/SocBootFromFPGA/ta-p/735773>`__
-  `Intel Bootloader <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/support/programmable/support-resources/design-guidance/soc-bootloader.html>`__

Necessary files for booting up a HDL project
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. warning::

   We **do not** provide any scripts to automate this process, so please read
   carefully and follow all the steps to obtain the boot file.

To boot a system with Linux + HDL on an Intel board, you need the following
files:

- For Arria 10 SoC projects (:ref:`build example <build_intel_boot_bin arria10>`):

> 

Reviewer 2: ok

   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/u-boot.img``
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/fit_spl_fpga.itb``
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/extlinux/extlinux.conf`` (keep the directory)
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/socfpga_arria10_socdk_sdmmc.dtb``
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/socfpga_arria10-common/zImage``
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/u-boot-splx4.sfp`` (preloader image)

- For Cyclone5 SoC project (build examples: :ref:`Terasic C5 <build_intel_boot_bin c5soc>`, :ref:`DE10Nano <build_intel_boot_bin de10nano>`):

   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/u-boot.scr``
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/soc_system.rbf``
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/extlinux/extlinux.conf`` (keep the directory)
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/socfpga_arria10-common/socfpga.dtb``
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/zImage``
   - ``<boot_mountpoint>/u-boot-with-spl.sfp`` (preloader image)

Using Kuiper Linux pre-built images
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Built & tested files are embed on our ADI Kuiper Linux release obtained
:dokuwiki:`here <resources/tools-software/linux-software/adi-kuiper_images/release_notes>`.

The files need to be copied to the BOOT FAT32 partition with the exception of

> the **preloader image**, which need needs to be written to the third partition

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the **preloader image**, which needs to be written to the third partition
```

of the mounted device.

So, suppose your host is a Linux system, your carrier is Arria10, project AD9081
and you are using Kuiper built files, mounted on /mnt/BOOT, you would:

.. shell::

   $cd /mnt/BOOT
   $cp socfpga_arria10_socdk_ad9081/u-boot.img .
   $cp socfpga_arria10_socdk_ad9081/fit_spl_fpga.itb .
   $mkdir -p extlinux
   $cp socfpga_arria10_socdk_ad9081/extlinux.conf extlinux/
   $cp socfpga_arria10_socdk_ad9081/socfpga_arria10_socdk_sdmmc.dtb .
   $cp socfpga_arria10_common/zImage .

> Writing the boot preloader partition require special attention,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Writing the boot preloader partition requires special attention,
```

    ~/hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc
   $quartus_cpf -c --hps -o bitstream_compression=on \
   $    ./adrv9371x_a10soc.sof soc_system.rbf

Building the Preloader and Bootloader Image
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

This flow applies starting with release 2021_R1 / Quartus Pro version 20.1.
For older versions of the flow see previous versions of this page on wiki
:dokuwiki:`Altera SOC Quick Start Guide <resources/tools-software/linux-software/altera_soc_images>`.

In HDL project directory, create the software/bootloader folder and clone the
``u-boot-socfpga`` image:

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc
   $mkdir -p software/bootloader
   $cd software/bootloader
   $git clone https://github.com/altera-opensource/u-boot-socfpga.git

Then run the qts filter and build the preloader and bootloader images:

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc/software/bootloader ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc/software/bootloader
   $cd u-boot-socfpga ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga

>    $git checkout rel_socfpga_v2021.07_22.02.02_pr

Reviewer 2: For different Quartus versions, there needs to be checked out different u-boot branches.

Author: Put a general caution section were I explicitly highlighted the importance of checking out the proper u-boot branch based on Quartus version.

Reviewer 2: I'm ok with having "general caution section".

   $./tools/mkimage -E -f board/altera/arria10-socdk/fit_spl_fpga.its fit_spl_fpga.itb

Last but not least, create the extlinux.conf linux configuration file. This
extlinux folder shall be copied to /BOOT partition of the SD Card:

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga
   $mkdir extlinux
   $printf "\
   $LABEL Linux Arria10 Default\n\
   $KERNEL ../zImage\n\
   $    FDT ../socfpga_arria10_socdk_sdmmc.dtb\n\
   $    APPEND root=/dev/mmcblk0p2 rw rootwait earlyprintk console=ttyS0,115200n8" \
   $    > extlinux/extlinux.conf

Configuring the SD Card
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

Below is the commands to create the preloader and bootloader partition using
the Kuiper Linux image as a starting point.
Please check every command before running, especially configuring target
device mountpoints accordingly
(here as ``/dev/sdz`` with partition 1 mounted at ``/media/BOOT/``).

Flash the SD Card with the Kuiper Linux image.

.. shell::

>    $time sudo dd if=./2023-12-13-ADI-Kuiper-full.img of=/dev/sdz status=progress bs=4194304

Reviewer 2: You can point here to Kuiper documentation (on wiki or analog.com for now) so people can use the latest.

Author: Already pointed in section 'Using Kuiper Linux pre-built images'. There's a link directly to Wiki Kuiper images page

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc
   $quartus_cpf -c --hps -o bitstream_compression=on \
   $    ./arradio_c5soc.sof soc_system.rbf

Building the Preloader and Bootloader Image
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

This flow applies starting with release 2021_R1 / Quartus Pro version 20.1.
For older versions of the flow see previous versions of this page on wiki
:dokuwiki:`Altera SOC Quick Start Guide <resources/tools-software/linux-software/altera_soc_images>`.

In HDL project directory, create the software/bootloader folder and clone the
``u-boot-socfpga`` image. Before that create a new BSP settings file.

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc
   $mkdir -p software/bootloader
   $embedded_command_shell.sh bsp-create-settings --type spl \
   $    --bsp-dir software/bootloader \
   $    --preloader-settings-dir "hps_isw_handoff/system_bd_sys_hps" \
   $    --settings software/bootloader/settings.bsp
   $cd software/bootloader ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader

>    $git clone https://github.com/altera-opensource/u-boot-socfpga.git

Reviewer 2: Pay attention to the u-boot branch used - on de10nano example you check out a specific branch, but here not. 
For example 'socfpga_v2021.10' is used for Quartus 22.1 Std (so u-boot tag has nothing to do with Quartus version).

Author: This was taken from Wiki. I will fix it.

Reviewer 2: It should be corrected also on wiki, if the page will remain publicly accessible.

Then run the qts filter and build the preloader and bootloader images:

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd  ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader
   $cd u-boot-socfpga ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga
   $./arch/arm/mach-socfpga/qts-filter.sh cyclone5 ../../../../../board/altera/cyclone5-socdk/qts/

>    $make socfpga_arria10_defconfig

Reviewer 2: Here is Cyclone 5 case - > replace "socfpga_arria10_defconfig" with "socfpga_cyclone5_defconfig"

   $make

Make u-boot.scr file - this file shall be copied to /BOOT partition of the SD Card

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga
   $echo "load mmc 0:1 \${loadaddr} soc_system.rbf;" > u-boot.txt
   $echo "fpga load 0 \${loadaddr} \$filesize;" >> u-boot.txt

>    $sed -i 's/ghrd_10as066n2/soc_system/g' board/altera/arria10-socdk/fit_spl_fpga.its

Reviewer 2: This line is specific to Arria10, there is no ITS file for Cyclone5.

Author: I'll remove the line.

   on the operating system that you use (Windows or Linux):

   -  :dokuwiki:`[Wiki] Building the Intel SoC-FPGA kernel and devicetrees from source <resources/tools-software/linux-build/generic/socfpga>`
   -  :dokuwiki:`[Wiki] Linux Download and setting up the image <resources/tools-software/linux-software/zynq_images/linux_hosts>`
   -  :dokuwiki:`[Wiki] Formatting and Flashing SD Cards using Windows <resources/tools-software/linux-software/zynq_images/windows_hosts>`

Proceed by cloning the kernel tree, set the environment to an arm architecture
cross compiler, build the configuration file, build the image, and lastly build
the project and board specific device tree.

You may notice that in the ``export CROSS_COMPILE`` examples there is a
"trailing" dash ``-``, and the reason for this is because an export:

.. shell::

   $export CROSS_COMPILE=/path/to/arm-linux-gnueabihf-

Resolves inside the Makefiles as ``/path/to/arm-linux-gnueabihf-gcc``
(added suffix ``gcc``).

If your environment already have the compiler on path
(simple test if :code:`which arm-linux-gnueabihf-gcc` returns the expected path),
you can set ``CROSS_COMPILE`` simply to:

.. shell::

>    $export CROSS_COMPILE=arm-linux-gnueabihf-

Author: It's just another example where we assume that the user has a configured environment and doesn't need to put the whole path to the compiler.

> If your environment already have the compiler on path
> (simple test if :code:`which arm-linux-gnueabihf-gcc` returns the expected path),
> you can set ``CROSS_COMPILE`` simply to:
> 
> .. shell::
> 
>    $export CROSS_COMPILE=arm-linux-gnueabihf-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your environment already has the compiler in the path
(test if :code:`which arm-linux-gnueabihf-gcc` returns the expected path),
you can set ``CROSS_COMPILE`` to:

.. shell::

   $export CROSS_COMPILE=arm-linux-gnueabihf-
```

Building the Linux Kernel image and the Devicetree
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

**Linux/Cygwin/WSL**

.. shell::

   $git clone https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/linux.git
   $cd linux/
   # Set architecture and compiler
   $export ARCH=arm
   $export CROSS_COMPILE=/path/to/arm-linux-gnueabihf-
   # Apply kconfig settings
   $make socfpga_adi_defconfig
   # Build the kernel
   $make zImage
   # Build the devicetree
   $make socfpga_arria10_socdk_adrv9371.dtb

Building the Hardware Design
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

Clone the HDL repository if it does not exist yet in local directory. Then build
the project:

.. shell::

   $git clone https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/hdl.git
   $cd hdl/projects/adrv9371x/a10soc
   $make

After the design was built, the resulted SRAM Object File (.sof) file shall be
converted to a Raw Binary File (.rbf).

If you skipped the last section, ensure to set the architecture and cross
compiler environment variables.

.. caution::

   Pay attention to directoy changes to where the commands are run from,

>    and always confirm with ``pwd`` to show the current path at you terminal.

Author: I wouldn't remove it, as it adds a degree of cautiones for the user. We just wat to emphasize on being very careful when following the build process. Small mistakes can interrupt or mess the whole process.

   $    bs=$(sudo blockdev --getsize64 /dev/sdz3) count=1
    1+0 records in
    1+0 records out
    8388608 bytes (8.4 MB, 8.0 MiB) copied, 0.359183 s, 23.4 MB/s
   $sudo dd if=./u-boot-splx4.sfp of=/dev/sdz3
    1697+1 records in
    1697+1 records out
    868996 bytes (869 kB, 849 KiB) copied, 0.21262 s, 4.1 MB/s

.. _build_intel_boot_bin c5soc:

ARRADIO/Terasic C5 SoC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  HDL Project: :git-hdl:`here <projects/arradio/c5soc>`
-  ADI's Linux kernel fork: :git-linux:`here <>`

Building the Linux Kernel image and the Devicetree
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

**Linux/Cygwin/WSL**

.. shell::

   $git clone https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/linux.git
   $cd linux/
   # Set architecture and compiler
   $export ARCH=arm
   $export CROSS_COMPILE=/path/to/arm-linux-gnueabihf-
   # Apply kconfig settings
   $make socfpga_adi_defconfig
   # Build the kernel
   $make zImage
   # Build the devicetree
   $make socfpga_cyclone5_sockit_arradio.dtb

Building the Hardware Design
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

> Clone the HDL repository if it does not exist yet in local directory. Then build

Reviewer: Same as lines 211-212

the project:

.. shell::

   $git clone https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/hdl.git
   $cd hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc
   $make

After the design was built, the resulted SRAM Object File (.sof) file shall be
converted to a Raw Binary File (.rbf).

If you skipped the last section, ensure to set the architecture and cross
compiler environment variables.

.. caution::

   Pay attention to directory changes to where the commands are run from,

>    and always confirm with ``pwd`` to show the current path at you terminal.

Reviewer: Same as comments from lines 220+

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc
   $quartus_cpf -c -o bitstream_compression=on --hps \
   $    ./arradio_c5soc.sof soc_system.rbf

Building the Preloader and Bootloader Image
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

This flow applies starting with release 2021_R1 / Quartus Pro version 20.1.
For older versions of the flow see previous versions of this page on wiki
:dokuwiki:`Altera SOC Quick Start Guide <resources/tools-software/linux-software/altera_soc_images>`.

In HDL project directory, create the software/bootloader folder and clone the

> ``u-boot-socfpga`` image. Before that create a new BSP settings file:

Reviewer: Same comments as for the previous example

Reviewer: Still present

    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader
   $git clone https://github.com/altera-opensource/u-boot-socfpga.git
   $git checkout socfpga_v2021.10

Then run the qts filter and build the preloader and bootloader images:

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader
   $cd u-boot-socfpga ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga
   $./arch/arm/mach-socfpga/qts-filter.sh cyclone5 ../../../../../board/altera/cyclone5-socdk/qts/
   $make socfpga_cyclone5_defconfig
   $make

Make u-boot.scr file - this file shall be copied to /BOOT partition of the SD Card:

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga
   $echo "load mmc 0:1 \${loadaddr} soc_system.rbf;" > u-boot.txt
   $echo "fpga load 0 \${loadaddr} \$filesize;" >> u-boot.txt
   $./tools/mkimage -A arm -O linux -T script -C none -a 0 -e 0 -n "Cyclone V script" -d u-boot.txt u-boot.scr

Last but not least, create the extlinux.conf linux configuration file. This

> extlinux folder shall be copied to /BOOT partition of the SD Card:

Reviewer: Same as for the previous example

Reviewer: Still present

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga
   $mkdir extlinux
   $printf "\
   $LABEL Linux C5 SoC Default\n\
   $KERNEL ../zImage\n\
   $    FDT ../socfpga.dtb\n\
   $    APPEND root=/dev/mmcblk0p2 rw rootwait earlyprintk console=ttyS0,115200n8" \
   $    > extlinux/extlinux.conf

Jumper setup
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

> Here is the jumper configuration to boot the image from the SD Card:

Reviewer: \+ "for ARRADIO/C5SoC"

.. list-table::

>    :widths: 45 45

Reviewer: Should sum up to 100

   :header-rows: 1

   * - Jumper
     - Position
   * - CLOCKSEL0
     - 2-3
   * - CLOCKSEL1
     - 2-3
   * - BOOTSEL0
     - 2-3
   * - BOOTSEL1
     - 2-3
   * - BOOTSEL2
     - 1-2
   * - MSEL0
     - 0
   * - MSEL1
     - 1
   * - MSEL2
     - 0
   * - MSEL3
     - 1
   * - MSEL4
     - 0
   * - CODEC_SEL
     - 0

> And set JP2 to 2.5V or 1.8V

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And **set JP2 to 2.5V or 1.8V**.
```

Configuring the SD Card
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````````

> Below is the commands to create the preloader and bootloader partition using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are the commands to create the preloader and bootloader partition using
```

   $cp ./software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga/extlinux/extlinux.conf /media/BOOT/extlinux/
   ~
   $cp ~/linux/arch/arm/boot/dts/socfpga_cyclone5_sockit_arradio.dtb /media/BOOT/socfpga.dtb
   $cp ~/linux/arch/arm/boot/zImage /media/BOOT/

Unmount the /BOOT partition:

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $sudo umount /dev/sdz1
   $lsblk
    NAME        MAJ:MIN RM  SIZE  RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
    sdz           8:48  1   29.1G  0 disk
    ├─sdz1        8:49  1      2G  0 part
    ├─sdz2        8:50  1   27.1G  0 part
    └─sdz3        8:51  1      8M  0 part

Flash the preloader boot partition:

.. shell::
   :no-path:

   $cd ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga ; pwd
    ~/hdl/projects/arradio/c5soc/software/bootloader/u-boot-socfpga
   $sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sdz3 oflag=sync status=progress \
   $    bs=$(sudo blockdev --getsize64 /dev/sdz3) count=1
    1+0 records in
    1+0 records out
    8388608 bytes (8.4 MB, 8.0 MiB) copied, 0.359183 s, 23.4 MB/s
   $sudo dd if=./u-boot-with-spl.sfp of=/dev/sdz3
    1697+1 records in
    1697+1 records out
    868996 bytes (869 kB, 849 KiB) copied, 0.21262 s, 4.1 MB/s

.. _build_intel_boot_bin de10nano:

> CN0540/DE10Nano

Reviewer: Same comments as for the previous example

Reviewer: Still present. All the comments I had for the previous sections, they apply to this one as well, since it's the same text used for each example
